Here is a response to the editorial policy as set out by Ted Ralphs in
the editorial statement, at "software tools".  The policy is preceded
by a chevron (">") and my response is indicated inline.

> Papers describing software and data made available to the research
> community are particularly sought.

The lorentz R package is made available to the research community and
fits in well with editorial policy.


> These papers need not provide novel mathematics or algorithms
> themselves, but must be novel and important with respect to computing
> and must describe or illustrate how the software and data can be used
> to advance research and how it fits in the research literature.

The manuscript describes the lorentz R package, which sets out the
only R-centric software for special relativity.  Relativity is an
important and interesting branch of physics and having an R package
simplifies nand facilitates certain research tasks in the field,
specifically the search for a distributive law for relativistic
velocity addition.


> The review process then will consist of two parts: verifying the
> reproducibility/maintainability, and verifying the potential
> importance to the research community. Reviews of these papers will be
> completed within six weeks, assuming the reproducibility is easily
> verified. On the other hand, this is not expected to be a review
> process with numerous iterations but more of a go, no-go review.

The package includes a number of internal consistency checks and an
extensive vignette, which is a superset of the submitted manuscript.
The package is available on CRAN which maintains strict
reproducibility criteria and quality control.  The package subscribes
to the online travis automated checking service.


> These papers are expected to be approximately five to ten pages in
> length.

Manuscript is eight and a half pages long.


> Authors must also submit their source code with compilation
> scripts (e.g., a makefile) or instructions, and test data with test
> scripts or instructions.

Source code for the manusript is Rnw format and the submission
includes a Makefile.


> As a condition of publication the software
> must be released with a license adequate to allow use by researchers.

The package is maintained under an open-source license at github.
